Sheep farming has a long tradition in Austrian mountainous areas in order to graze the steep areas, and to gain meat, milk and wool, but after WW2 sheep products continuously lost relevance. Some farmers from the region of Weiz joined forces in the 1970s to foster a revival of sheep farming against the trend of cattle that traditionally graze the mountain pastures in this region. Like in other parts of Austria, sheep husbandry is practiced on an extreme small scale - only 25 sheep in average. This makes the processing and marketing of the sheep products very time-consuming for the single farm, direct sale is not very attractive. On the other hand, single farms do not have the capacity to supply to retailers, and they have a weak position in price negotiations. Thus, a cooperative was founded, which established its own brand for premium lamb, dairy products and recently cosmetics from whey as well. The cooperative uses the LEADER programme since 25 years on the one hand to develop further, but on the other hand also to achieve an optimal embedding in the regional development. It runs its own dairy with meat processing facilities and a shop, it is shareholder of the local slaughterhouse, and organises the marketing and sale of all food products and cosmetics and organises educational programmes. Only the marketing of wool is not covered. Nearly all value chain activities take place within the region, and the products are sold regionally or at most in the province of Styria through various channels ranging from direct sale at the cooperative’s shop, to farm shops, small local retailers, gastronomy, supermarkets and e-commerce. The cooperative does not only create favourable framework conditions for the farmers, but also sets the basis for continuous high quality and sustainable growth. In the mountainous areas of the Weizer Bergland region traditional pasture farming for meat, milk and dairy production is practiced since centuries. Particularly sheep farming has gained importance in keeping up this traditional practice and contributes to maintaining the region’s typical semi-open pasture landscape. This is not only relevant in terms of regional value creation through the production of sheep products, but also for tourism. The most important natural resource for sheep farming is the quality and productivity of pastures and grassland. During the Summer months the sheep are grazed on the mountainous pastures, during winter they are fed with grass silage, hay, and hay silage, which is all produced on-farm. But this practice is threatened by climate change related developments, such as changes in precipitation and extreme weather events like late frosts, heavy rains, storms, hail and periods of drought. Furthermore, changes in market and socioeconomic crisis pose threats to the market of sheep products due to higher production cost and lower purchasing power of customers. Furthermore, bottlenecks in the supply of farm operating equipment may lead to difficulties for production. Strategies, such as improvements in feeding management and more cooperation such as joint management of resources can further improve and foster the resilience and sustainability of the value chain. The strong cooperative structure of the Weizer Schafbauern and regional strategies for sustainable development in the region of Weiz are a good basis for building resilient structures further. In the current LEADER period and the regional development strategy various 3 strategies on EU and national level were considered like the Biodiversity Strategy 2030, ÖREK 2030, CAP 2023-27, Masterplan for Rural Areas, Plan TMasterplan Tourism and the Alpine Convention by strengthening several aspects: awareness for organic agricultural production, stronger coordination between direct marketers and producers and increased visibility of them, the development of new concepts for visitor guidance incl. strengthening sustainable and active mobility, the preservation of Natura 2000 and nature park areas5 . The relevance of these aspects can be supported by MOVING findings concerning the relevance of a soft tourism strategy as well as the need for supporting direct marketing of locally produced agricultural products. Regarding funding translated from the CAP, a stronger focus should be set on small family farms and alpine farmers. More concretely, within ÖPUL multiple services provided by organic and especially pasture farming should be more considered, e.g. through a further improvement of the pasture payment, which could stop the recent trend of increased stabling in the region. Furthermore, the compensation payments for disadvantaged regions should be further tailored to support small farms. This would contribute to a general appreciation and valuing of high quality agricultural production and related ecosystem services. Also the forest funds should be further developed to support climate change adaption. A stronger link of food production systems and their impact on ecosystem and natural resources is needed. Awareness raising campaigns as well as the integration of agriculture and food subjects into the educational system can support the recognition of sustainable farming practices as well as improve consumer awareness. In order to increase the adaptive capacity knowledge creation and exchange should be fostered through vocational trainings with experts, exchange within and beyond the value chain, adapted educational programs, and tailored consulting due to the heterogeneity of pasture properties and associated impacts of climatic change. Future policies should enable a framework for implementing the creation of a knowledge base, cooperation and innovation in order to deal with future challenges. Historically the region faced various challenges such as bush and wood encroachment of alpine pasture areas, migration of workers, marginalised tourism, and bad infrastructures. Therefore, the ‘Regional Community Initiative Almenland’ was funded in 1995 within the LEADER II program. Since then LEADER did and still does offer essential support for the regional development in that area. The embeddedness in the joint LEADER region ‘Almenland & Energieregion WeizGleisdorf’ is fruitful for the sheep farming cooperative in several aspects. For instance, the Local Action Group supports economic activities that contribute to climate protection and adaptation as well as environmental protection and ethics. Examples are funds for infrastructural investments, the support in the marketing of food quality products, such as the label “Määh” of the sheep farmers from Weiz. Additionally, Natura 2000 areas in the Nature Park Almenland were established to foster biodiversity and tourism. In the mountainous areas of the Weizer Bergland region traditional pasture farming for meat, milk and dairy production is practiced since centuries. Particularly sheep farming has gained importance in keeping up this traditional practice and contributes to maintaining the region’s typical semi-open pasture landscape. This is not only relevant in terms of regional value creation through the production of sheep products, but also for tourism. The most important natural resource for sheep farming is the quality and productivity of pastures and grassland. During the Summer months the sheep are grazed on the mountainous pastures, during winter they are fed with grass silage, hay, and hay silage, which is all produced on-farm. But this practice is threatened by climate change related developments, such as changes in precipitation and extreme weather events like late frosts, heavy rains, storms, hail and periods of drought. Furthermore, changes in market and socioeconomic crisis pose threats to the market of sheep products due to higher production cost and lower purchasing power of customers. Furthermore, bottlenecks in the supply of farm operating equipment may lead to difficulties for production. Strategies, such as improvements in feeding management and more cooperation such as joint management of resources can further improve and foster the resilience and sustainability of the value chain. The strong cooperative structure of the Weizer Schafbauern and regional strategies for sustainable development in the region of Weiz are a good basis for building resilient structures further. In the region of Weiz alpine sheep farming has a long tradition. The farms are mainly small scale, extensive farms. Sheep farmers formed a cooperative to increase their economic resilience and to gain fair prices. The development of the cooperative was carried out in coordination with the broader regional development. Fodder is highly important for the farming. With climate change this resource will be particularly affected. Exchange between farmers, with experts and tailored consulting can help farmers to adapt management practices. One example of such an exchange would be about grazing and pasture innovations. Within MOVING different stakeholders were brought together. They exchanged about vulnerabilities, climate change impacts and social aspects. Points of views were challenged by the exchange. Also a vision for the future of alpine sheep farming in the region was formed. In this vision policy is assisting the alpine farming by building supportive frameworks on all institutional levels. Examples could be awareness raising measures and fair remuneration of ecosystem services. Young people in the region see for the future a higher variety of products and services and more cooperation. They also realize the need for innovations in farm management, processing and products. Better cooperation with other sectors like the health sector was also seen as a promising pathway. It is considered useful that farmers and regional authorities and policy institutions plan future developments jointly respectively in coordination with each other. This process could be fostered through targeted support for such joint activities.